.. _lblAbout:

*****
About
*****

This open-source research application, is released in GitHub (|tool github link|) under a **BSD clause 2** license (see :ref:`lblLicense`). The |app| can be used to characterize the performance of a building subjected to excitation from a natural hazard event. The application focuses on quantifying building performance through decision variables. Some of the building features and natural hazard event characteristics are often available with limited accuracy or not available at all. The |app| allows users to consider the uncertainties due to such imperfect information and propagate their effects through the analysis.

The seismic response of the structure can be estimated using the same modules that are avaiable in our |EE-UQ app link|. The |short tool name| builds on the |EE-UQ short name| and uses its response estimation features to assess the behavior of a building under a seismic event. Users can also choose to import response estimates from external simulations and focus only on the damage and loss estimation in the |short tool name|. Performance of a building under other, non-seismic, natural hazard events can also be considered by loading external demand data.

Users can characterize the seismic hazard, the structural model, the asset model, the demand model, the damage model, and loss models in this application. All models are interconnected by a flexible stochastic framework for uncertainty quantification. The calculation workflow starts with response estimation (e.g., nonlinear response history simulations) to obtain Engineering Demand Parameters (EDPs) that can serve as the demands for performance assessment. The component definitions in the Asset model are used to generate multiple realizations of the building with component types and corresponding quantities assigned to each floor and direction. The fragility functions defined for each component type are then used to estimate component damage states throughout the building as a function of the demands calculated earlier. Finally, consequence functions are used to calculate the losses for each component type and damage state.

Depending on the type of structural system, the fidelity of the numerical model, and the desired sample size, the structural response simulations can be computationally prohibitively expensive. To overcome this impediment, the user has the option to perform the response simulations on the Frontera supercomputer. Frontera is part of the Texas Advanced Computing Center (TACC) and it is accessed through NHERI DesignSafe-CI, the cyberinfrastructure provider for the Natural Hazards Engineering Research Infrastructure (NHERI).

The computations are performed by a series of applications, a workflow. The |short tool id| runs these applications using SimCenter's backend engine. The backend takes the outputs from each program and provides them as inputs to following program in the sequence. Users are not limited to using the default applications we provide. Advanced users can modify the backend and add their own application in the workflow. This allows them as well as other users to take advantage of the newly added applications.

This is Version |tool version| of the tool. Users are encouraged to comment on the additional features and capabilities they would like to see in this application through the |messageBoard|. We greatly appreciate any input you have. If there are features you want, chances are many of your colleagues also would benefit from them. Please review the :ref:`lbl-requirements` to see what features are already planned for future versions of this application.